hello everyone welcome back to the
channel uh I'm Evan co-founder of hello
interview and a former meta staff
engineer and today I actually wanted to
take a step back and make a more
beginner friendly video for you all
today so many of you have seen our
system design video breakdowns uh we're
going to do a new one of those today and
it's going to be for the classic
question design a URL shortener which is
everybody's first system design question
and in this video as I mentioned I'm
going to slow things down a bit I'm
going to teach Concepts that we
otherwise take for granted in some of
our other videos so if you're new to
system design or you're dusting off the
cot webs this is the place to start uh
if you like our content you want more of
it please make sure that you like and
subscribe uh the increasing number of
subscribers is really motivating to us
it makes us want to create more content
for you so make sure you smash those
buttons if you haven't already lastly if
videos aren't your thing I've linked the
written resources in the description as
well so if you don't want to watch this
whole video you can just come here and
read the written form there's also tons
of other common problem break Downs over
a dozen now on the left hand side you
can also try all of these yourself with
guided practice and so guided practice
is a tool that quickly just lets you
walk through designing systems on your
own and then you get this personalized
feedback for each step along the process
this feedback was tuned by myself and my
co-founder Stefan so give that a go and
then the last thing here is that if
you're looking uh or if you're preparing
for interviews the best thing that you
can do is mock interviews and that's our
specialty here at hello interview so
come on over do a mock interview with a
senior plus engineer manager from your
target company and they'll tell you
exactly where your gaps are and how you
can improve all right let's get into
it before we start designing our URL
shortener let me take a brief moment to
just explain the framework or the steps
that we're going to follow both in this
interview and this is also the framework
or steps that I suggest you follow for
any of your system design interviews so
the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to Define the
requirements of our system this is both
the functional requirements or the core
features as well as the non-functional
requirements or the qualities of the
system things like scale durability
fault
tolerance after we do that we'll Define
or outline the core entities this is
really simple highlevel list of the core
entities that are going to be persisted
and exchanged in our system another way
to think of this is like the names of
the tables or collections that you would
have in your data model once we do that
we're going to move on to the API this
is the user facing API it's the contract
between your client and your users and
your backend service from here we're
going to skip data flow this is only
applicable to infra heavy system design
questions so like designer rate limiter
design a message CU stuff like that so
not applicable to a user facing product
like a URL shortener so instead we're
going to go right to high Lev Design
This is where we're going to head to the
Whiteboard we're going to start drawing
boxes in arrows in order to outline a
system where the primary goal is to
satisfy the functional requirements
ments that we outlined in one and so at
this point our system is going to be
really simple it's not going to be able
to scale it's not going to be able to do
anything too fancy it's just going to be
able to satisfy those core features that
we outlined but from there we're going
to move on to our deep Dives where
things are going to get fun and we're
going to go one by one through those
non-functional requirements in order to
evolve our highle design in a way such
that it ends up satisfying each of those
non-functional requirements and at the
end we're going to have a system that
satisfies all of our functional
requirements and all of our
non-functional requirements and we're
going to feel really good like we pass
the
interview as promised we're going to
start our design with the requirements
of the
system and so the first thing that we do
is we start with the functional
requirements the functional requirements
are the core features of the system this
is where you're going to try to identify
the top two to three features that are
necessary and that you will have time to
design in your 35 to 45 minute interview
now if you were told to design a system
that you already know well then this
should be pretty easy but you might also
be asked to design a system that you've
maybe never heard of in this case you're
going to want to ask a lot of questions
this is the time where you would pepper
your interviewer with questions in order
to better understand the system that
you're required to build in our case
what is a URL shortener well a URL
shortener is a service that converts
long URLs into short ones and then those
short URLs will redirect you to the
original URL so you can take this long
URL give it to the URL shortener it
returns this Returns the short thing you
can put the short thing in your browser
and it's going to redirect you here
pretty simple so in our case functional
requirements can always be thought of as
like these users should be able to users
can you know users will statements and
so what are ours well that first one is
that users can create a short URL from a
long URL or an original URL perfect
that's our first thing what's the second
thing well users can be read directed to
the original URL from the short
URL easy right those are the two core
features of a URL shortener now I'm
going to add a little bit of flavor
that's often added in these questions
and that I'll uh have candidates address
if I'm conducting this interview and
that's that I want to optionally support
a custom Alias and so this is that users
could come to us with their own short
Alias maybe instead of us generating
this random thing they give us for
example Evan and then their short URL
becomes SL Evan assuming it doesn't
already exist so we'll support that
optionally if they want to provide it
we'll also optionally support an
expiration time and so maybe somebody's
creating a short URL for a conference or
something and they only want it to be
valid for the week then we'll expire it
after that week if they give us that
expiration time this means that if
somebody tries to navigate to that short
URL after the expiration they'll just
get an error or something telling them
that it's already expired so these are
the core functional requirements of the
system
um the next thing that you would do is
that you would go into the nonfunctional
what we refer to as the non-functional
requirements of the system now the
non-functional requirements are instead
of being features and like they are the
qualities of the system and so the
quality of the system are all of those
words you've heard these are like these
Iles these ilities words these things
like the scalability the latency the
durability security fault tolerance is
your system compliant this is where you
talk about cap their
all of those things what qualities does
the system need to uphold in order to
ensure a good user experience and that
we're meeting user
expectations and so what you typically
want to do when you get to
non-functional requirements and and
these are hard often times especially
for more Junior candidates to think of
is that you should go one by one through
those Illy statements maybe you have a
list of them um kind of readily on your
on your table as you're going into the
interview and you think about which one
of them are uniquely interesting and
relevant to this system
and so for example the first one that we
could look at is latency how is latency
important in our system well it's really
important that that redirection is low
latency and so one system requirement
and these are instead of user should be
able to this is the system should be
statements so the system should be low
latency on
redirects so if we give it a short URL
we should automatically go to that
original URL so not only did did we
choose the non-functional requirement
but we put it in the context of our
system it's not just low latency it's
specifically low latency on
redirects and we want to quantify it too
we're going to say about 200
milliseconds 200 milliseconds is a good
number here because it's what is uh the
humans perceive as real time so anything
under 200 milliseconds you wouldn't even
notice the difference uh 200
milliseconds is like this snap of a
finger it's real time so it's a good
lower Bound for us here so we have one
non-functional requirement lower latency
low latency on
redirects another thing that we can
think about is the scale of the system
and this is a time when I would ask my
interviewer I would say how large of a
system are we designing how many users
what's the scale of this system and they
might tell you to estimate it uh or they
might just give you kind of a sense of
what the scale is I typically would do
the latter and I would tell a candidate
that they should expect 100 million
daily active users and around 1 billion
URLs that gets shortened kind of in
totality over over over over all time
and so that would turn into a functional
requirement of the system should be able
to scale to support to support 100
million daily active
users and 1 billion URLs fantastic
making good progress on the
non-functional
requirements another one that's
interesting here which is a little bit
handwavy whether it fits in non-function
requirements but I want to call it out
because of how important it is it's that
each of these short URLs or each of
these short codes they need to be unique
so the system needs to ensure sure
uniqueness of short codes these short
codes are these kind of things that
we're pending to the end of the URL
right we need to ensure uniqueness of
short codes so that there's no
collisions so that people don't end up
getting redirected to a site they
weren't expecting to go to so those
always need to be unique that's
definitely going to be a core system
requirement and then the last one here
that I'm going to do which typically you
might do first but it's always going to
be considered and that's cap theorem so
really quickly what is Cap theorem well
cap theorem is a theorem that states
that from um when considering
consistency availability and partition
tolerance you can only ever have two of
those three things now partition
tolerance in distributed systems like
we're almost always designing in system
design interviews this is a guarantee
you have to have partition tolerance
because you're going to have partitions
you're going to have different instances
for example of your database you're
going to horizontally scale your servers
and so the decision really becomes is it
consistency or availability does my
system need strong consistency or does
my system need High availability and
what I want you to think about as you're
in an interview is do I need strong read
after write
consistency the way to think about this
is does every single read of my system
have to read the latest right or else
the system breaks or fails in some way
so common examples of systems that need
this read after write strong consistency
are like a banking application or a
ticket booking
system the the example being in the
ticket booking system case if somebody
went and booked the last ticket to the
Taylor Swift concert in Germany and then
I in America went to book that same
ticket and I went and read the database
and it told me it was still available
because I didn't have strong read after
write consistency I would book that
ticket and now we would both show up and
we would be fighting for the same seed
that would be bad this would be like a
fatal error to our system we we can't
have that same to in a banking app
somebody else trades a stock especially
if it's a low float I no matter where I
am in the world need to know that that
stock was traded because it might impact
the price before I buy or sell
respectively
right um in the case of a URL shorten or
do we need that strong read after write
consistency well you can imagine that
somebody gives us a long URL we shorten
it we give them the short URL back does
anybody who then hits that short URL
immediately need to be able to be
redirected we could say no and the
reason we could say no is because first
of all there's some time that it takes
for a user to share a short URL with
other users and for to start being used
and that gives us time to be eventually
consistent if for some reason somebody
was wicked quick a there are ways that
we can handle that by making sure
they're redirected to that same original
node but B if they didn't get redirected
in that first couple seconds up to even
a minute who cares right like we can
show them a little error that just says
like we're still saving this in the
system try again in a minute and no big
deal things would the world wouldn't end
two people wouldn't show up to the
Taylor Swift show fighting for the same
seat right so because that's the case
because we we don't need strong
consistency we're instead going to go
for availability and so we're going to
say high
availability uh and we don't need strong
consistency wow I don't know how to
spell that we don't need strong
consistency instead uh we can handle
eventual consistency so
event
eventual eventual
consistency for URL
shortening right
cool okay um so that's our
non-functional require the last thing
that I'm going to say here is that many
guides will instruct you at this point
into go to back of the envelope
estimations so you come in here you do
back of the envelope estimations you
would end up talking about things like
scale estimations latency estimations
like total storage estimations whatever
this is fine you can do it but I'm going
to suggest that it's
useless um estimations and calculations
while doing system design is very
important but doing it upfront like this
I find as an interviewer is almost
always useless candidates will do some
basic math About Storage latency Etc and
then they'll look at me and they'll go
okay yeah so it's going to be a big
distributed system and it's like we kind
of knew that already didn't we there was
100 million daily active users and a
billion URLs you're not you're not
telling them anything new and you're not
going to change your design based on
that information you are always going to
do a distributed
system and so what I argue is that doing
math for the sake of doing math is not
useful instead you should tell your
interviewer I'd rather not do math up
front and I'm going to do it during my
high level design or my deep Dives if I
need it to make a decision and so the
key here is that you're going to do
calculations when the result of those
calculations will directly inform a
direction or decision that you're going
to take in your design and doing it up
front like this in my experience does
not satisfy
that next up we go into the core
entities of the system now the core
entities as I mentioned these can be
thought of as basically the tables that
you're going to have in your database
this is the entities that your system is
persisting storing in the database and
exchanging via the apis right and so
core entities as I suggest as we
suggested hello interview you start by
just listing off these entities don't
worry about the full data model yet
you're going to get into that later I
would communicate this proactively with
your interviewer I would say I'm not
going to do the full data model just yet
instead I'm going to list off these core
entities and as I get into my high level
design I'll be more explicit about the
fields or columns for each of them
but in our case what do we know that we
have we have an original URL we have a
short URL and then like we have a user
who creates them these are the entities
in our system pretty straightforward and
the reality is that this system is so
simple that you could outline the data
model here if you wanted to you probably
know it at this point the reason that we
don't yet is because for more
complicated systems it's often times too
early and we haven't had a chance to
think through our API and all of the
requirements that that would have us
understand what the full data model
would be but in this case it might be
fine I'm going to go with this and and
uh this is a good enough core entities
for now which takes us then to our API
the
API is where again we Define that
contract between our client or our users
and our system and the way that I
suggest you go after the API is very
methodically you're just going to come
up here to your functional requirements
and in most cases it's a one toone
mapping between a functional requirement
and an API not always sometimes you have
like two or three API endpoints for each
requirements or maybe uh you don't even
have an API endpoint for a requirement
but you should come up to this list and
you should say the first thing I need to
do is users should be able to create a
short URL from a long URL okay let me
make sure that I have an API that
supports that so in doing so the first
API that we need is to be able to
shorten a URL and so this can be a post
Endo to some URLs resource and it's
going to return a short URL we're just
going to reference here our core entity
right it's going to return a short URL
and the body here is going to be what
namely it'll have that original URL
again referencing that core entity uh it
could have that optional custom Alias
I'm going to use question mark in order
to uh indicate the optionality there and
then we can also have optionally that
expiration time so that expiration time
right and so there's our first URL our
first API endpoint which is going to
allow us to take an original URL and
return a short
URL uh when you're doing these system
design interviews you often times will
use rest apis though not always uh when
you are using rest apis a couple things
to think about you want to make sure
that you get your verb correct here you
have post put patch get delete Etc most
often you're just going to use post when
you're creating a new resource put or
patch when you're updating a resource
delete of course if you're deleting a
resource and then get if you are quite
obviously getting or fetching a resource
so make sure you have those down and
then when it comes to these paths you
you typically are going for a plural
noun and so to be honest with you as an
interviewer I don't care about all of
this I think this is like kind of silly
semantics that are easy to to change
figure out they're not the most
interesting part of any design but
especially at the lower levels you'll
have like what I'll call restful API
zealots interviewers who really care
about this and so I just want you to be
aware and considering things
appropriately okay so that's that first
API endpoint right we just satisfied
that first functional requirement the
second one is user should be able to be
redirected to the original URL from the
short code okay so we need to handle an
API endpoint for redirection and so how
is this going to work well we're going
to have some get endpoint and it's going
to go to slash like our short code or to
use our uh our core entities it's just
going to go to our short URL and then
it's going to return
a redirect to our original URL
right so that's pretty straightforward
now in case this isn't obvious the way
that these systems work of course is
that when you run this git and we'll get
into this in a in a moment when you run
this git you're hitting our server the
server that we own our URL shortener
with that short URL and that short code
uh and then we can take that code figure
out what we need to do with it we'll get
into that later and then and then issue
the redirection but that's how this ends
up working so here are our API endpoints
super simple we double check we have an
API endpoint for each of our functional
requirements these fully satisfy those
requirements we feel like we're in a
good spot and we're ready to move on to
the next
section so at this point we've done all
the setup work we have a really clear
understanding of the system that we need
to design we know the core entities that
are persisted and exchanged and we've
defined our contract with our back end
between our client and our server and so
the next step is to come over here and
do our highle Design This is where
things are more fun we get to go to the
Wi board we get to draw and our primary
goal again is to just satisfy these core
functional requirements so we're not
going to worry about scale or meeting
latency or uring uniqueness or
availability or any of these things yet
we're going to do that later we're just
going to get a simple design down that
works and by following this framework
our mind is just working linearly so
that even if we've uh if we're g excuse
me if we're given a problem that we
haven't seen before we can just build
the design up step by step by step okay
so when it comes to the high level
design here's how I recommend you do it
you come over to each of the apis and
you start with the API and you draw out
the system that's necessary in order to
satisfy that API this is equivalent to
going step by step through each of the
functional requirements as your note but
by doing it uh for the for the apis you
can be really clear about the data flow
and about what needs uh to be the input
and the output of each request and how
the system of transforms those
appropriately if you will so let's come
over here and let's let's draw this out
I'm going to start simple and I I have a
given client this client here is just
maybe like the website right pretty
simple um and then I also have a primary
server so this is going to be the
primary compute resource in my back
end and then I'm also going to add a
database I'm going to add a database and
so this is a very classic design pattern
just a client server database
relationship the client is going to make
a request to your backend server your
back in server or your server is going
to do something persist it in your
database and then return it back to a
client and so in our case what we're
considering right now is what happens
when a user tries to shorten a URL
they're going to make a post request to/
URLs and then we're going to return to
them a short URL well how are we going
to do that we're going to do that
because they're going to make that API
request here that API request is going
to be you know get short
URL it's going to hit our primary server
our Prim primary server is going to have
some magic black box that creates short
URL we'll talk about how it does that
later we'll stay abstract for now so
it's going to generate that short code
and then it's going to come over here
and it's going to save it to the
database I'll make that a two-way Arrow
this one should be
too cool so it's going to come over here
it's going to save it to our database
and then return it back to the client
well what is it saving to our database
well we probably now Define some data
models instead of having separate
entities or separate table for the short
URL and the long URL which we could do
I'm instead going to combine them in
this case into one because of how simple
it is and this is going to make more
sense so I'm going to have a URL table
and this URL table is going to have the
short URL and it's going to have the
long or original URL it's probably going
to have the creation time and the user
ID a forwarding key to the user that
ended up creating this and then
subsequently I'm going to have a user
with a user ID I'm not going to outline
anything more of course a you user table
will have a uh an email a password hash
uh salt all of these different things
who cares I see so many candidates get
distracted by those things in an
interview we're focus on the core
functionality here all of that is
auxiliary and so maybe I just do this
you know of course all the additional
metadata cool and so we take a look at
that first API endpoint that we had post
to URLs return a short URL here's how
it's going to work the client is going
to post to our primary server it'll
create a short URL it'll store that in
the database as a mapping between the
short the long UR URL at the creation
time and with the user ID and it'll
return that short URL back to the client
easy we got it first one down now the
second one is that the user needs to get
that short URL and be redirected to the
original URL and so how are we going to
do that well now we have an additional
thing here we have this like uh you know
redirect which takes in the short this
one took in the
long and so that's going to come from
our client it's going to hit our par Ary
server our primary server is going to
look up long from short all right so
it's going to go over to our database
it's going to query it based on that
short URL I'm probably going to want to
make that our primary key it's going to
query based on the short URL and then
it's going to return the long URL back
to the user and it's going to return
this back to the user with importantly a
redirect and so a 302 redirect is just
the http status code which tells the
browser I want you to take this URL and
automatically navigate to it I want you
to automatically navigate to this URL
and when it comes to redirects we have
two options we have a 302 redirect and
we have a 301 redirect these are both
different https status codes and so in
the case of a 301 redirect this is a
permanent redirect and what it basically
means is that the C uh the your clients
your browser DNS servers potentially
they can cash this redirect and in the
future they might not even need to go to
your service they're just going to
redirect it immediately based on the
cach in the 302 case this is temporary
and so it's never going to be cashed
they're always going to come to us first
we're going to look it up and then we're
going to send it back and so there's a
conversation that you would have with
your interviewer at this point
potentially about whether 302 or 301
makes more sense now it depends on your
requirements I suppose in our case we
don't care about analytics which is what
would make the 302 the right answer here
because in the case where you have
analytics you can show users how often
their short URL is being queried um you
would want to make sure that it always
comes to your server because then you
can log and you have an understanding
that this redirect was was requested in
the 301 case you're not going to get
that you're not going to be afforded
that ability it's not going to hit your
server so you're not going to be able to
log anything for future analytics now
this per redirect would be better if we
were worried about compute cost if we
were worried potentially about not
having to scale this server in the
future then uh by having it be permanent
it's handled by caches elsewhere and may
never even hit our backend service in
the first place that's pretty nice and
so there's pros and cons here typically
speaking you want to go with the 302
even the cost to uh you know how many
servers you may need because it allows
you to understand if things are working
even if you're not showing users
analytics even if that's not a core
requirement you would be tracking that
internally as a as a platform as a
product and if you saw things drop off a
cliff there well you would know
something broke probably broke on the
client and we're not getting these
requests anymore and so by making it a
301 you lose that visibility and this is
the argument that I would make in an
interview uh and why I would decide on a
302 redirect here and so the server will
respond with a 302 redirect with the uh
original URL and the client will then
navigate that original URL and they'll
be viewing that original website awesome
so super simple we went through each of
our apis we now have a really high level
design that satisfies both of our core
functional requirements I suppose with
that being said as I just went back here
and checked as you should do too I noted
that we actually didn't discuss two
parts of that functional requirement and
that's the custom Alias the expiration
so let me come back and amend
appropriately uh we're going to add here
you know that short URL slash custom
Alias this could be either of those
things if they provided a custom Alias
and then we're also going to add that
optional expiration time so an
expiration time here and so now what a
user would do if they gave us a short uh
if they wanted to get a short URL and
they gave us a long URL and then they
also gave us a custom Alias we would
need to First Look up in the database
does that custom Alias already exist if
no add a new row where the short URL is
the custom Alias and return that back to
the user easy and then in the case of
expiration time being provided we'll
make sure that we add it here and then
on the redirect call when we come to
look up our long URL based on the short
URL we'll also check the expiration time
is the current time greater than the
expiration time if so return an error
instead of a 302
redirect okay with that being said now
we have a highle design that satisfies
each of our functional requirements and
it's time to go deep in order to expand
this design to support each of our
non-functional requirements
so as we move on to the Deep Dives we're
going to come over to our non-functional
requirements and we're just going to go
one by one through them evolving the
simple highle design such that it meets
each of these non-functional
requirements as well as the functional
requirements that are already
satisfies and now if you all will allow
me I'm actually going to take some
Liberties here and I'm going to start
off with the third one Ure uniqueness of
short codes and the reason I'm going to
start off with that one is because
you'll realize that in our highle design
we intentionally overlooked kind of the
core of this problem we black booxed
this create a short URL that's the hard
part that's the interesting part of a
URL shortener and we just handwaved it
now we did that intentionally the reason
we did it intentionally is that a common
mistake I see candidates make is that
they go too deep On Any Given part of
the design too early and then all of a
sudden time runs out and they didn't
even get a chance to satisfy all of the
functional requirements that features
their system this is a mistake and so
you want to remain pretty high level
make sure that you have the base down
make sure you satisfy those functional
requirements and then come back and go
deeper and that's exactly what we're
doing here so I would have told my
interviewer I would have said to my
interviewer I'm blackboxing this for now
but I'm going to come back to it and now
let's do exactly that so what do we need
we need two things when it comes to
creating a short URL well maybe we need
a couple of things we need the creation
to be fast that's reasonable we need it
to be unique and we need it to be short
those are the three things that we care
about how short well we could ask our
interviewer or we could guess but
typically we're talking in like this 5
to 7ish character range right so 5 to
seven characters maybe is short enough
and so let's talk about some options
that we have here and in interview you
do do exactly this you'd kind of work
your way up building from the most
simple solution to something more
complex certainly if time allows so the
first thing that we could do is that we
could just take a prefix of the long URL
or the input URL so any given long UR
that comes in let's just chop off the
first five to seven characters stick
that then as our short URL or our short
Alias or excuse me our short code uh and
then append that to the end of our wwwb
bitly.com that prefix right now this is
obviously bad why is it obviously bad
well because there are tons of URLs that
share the same prefix what about every
single URL at www twitter.com or wwwf
facebook.com or any of these different
common URLs they're all going to share
the same prefix and now we don't have a
one to one mapping between short and
long URL we have a one to many mapping
this means that if you give us one of
those prefixed short URLs we have no
idea which one of the thousands hundreds
of thousands of long URLs it actually
maps to so it's a terrible idea don't do
it the second thing that we could do is
we could use a random number generator
this is a much better idea so a random
oop so this is a random number
generator and so we ask oursel like how
large can can this number be how large
should this number be how large would
this number need to be well if we come
back over here we're reminded of our
scale that we're going to have a billion
URLs and so this means that this random
number needs to be at least between one
and a billion of course if it's just
between one and a billion our Collision
rate is going to be really high so we
might want it to be higher than that but
it needs to be at least that 1 billion
is 10 to the N or 10
characters right 10 characters that's
more than our 5 to S that's too many
characters and so we'll need to do
something a little bit more
sophisticated in order to compact that
we can't just depend 10 characters to
the end of this thing and we need at
least 10 remember we probably need 11 12
13 in order to make sure they Collision
rate is lower but here's what we can do
we can do something called base 62
encoding and so base 62 encoding is
basically can be thought of like a
numbering system like zero all the way
to to you know 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 eight and
all the way up but instead we're going
to incorporate the alphabet and so the
way that the numbering works is that we
go from 0 to 9 and then we go from A to
Z and then we go from A to Z
lowercase and so what this means is that
10 is actually a 11 is actually
uppercase B and it means that any given
character can now encode uh 62 options
as opposed to just n or 10 like in the
traditional base 10 encoding
right so we can take a large number and
then base 62 and code it and so now how
large would we want this to be well if
we had for example a code that was
length six let's go right between r five
and R seven then it would be 62 to the 6
possible combinations 62 to the 6 is 56
billion about and so that's pretty good
we have like a decent amount of space
there we can randomly choose a number
between 0 and 56 billion we can base 62
encode it and it's going to be a short
code it'll be of length six in base 62
encoding uh but what about our chance of
collision what is the chance that a
random number between 0 and 56 billion
when calculated a billion times ends up
colliding well you might be surprised by
this but the Collision probability is
actually really high uh this is often
times referred to as something called
the birthday Paradox I'll write that
down in case anybody's interested in
reading about it so this is the birthday
Paradox and it's this counterintuitive
probability problem that states that
there's actually a 50% chance that two
people in a group of only 23 people have
the same birthday I'll say that again
you can see why that's so
counterintuitive if you have 23 people
in a room there's a greater than 50%
chance that at least two of them share a
birthday despite there being 365 days in
a year now the formula that is used to
calculate that can be used to calculate
um the the probability of a collision
on 56 billion uh randomly generated
things as well and you wouldn't need to
know this in a system design interview
but just because I thought it was
interesting I went about and I did this
and it turns out that out of 8 billion
or excuse me 1 billion random
Generations there's an estimated 880k
collisions that would happen here so
that's a lot that's like a decent number
of of collisions right it's depending on
how you define a lot 880k over billion
might not be that many but it's it's
certainly a large enough number that we
would end up with more than a one to one
mapping and so how do we address this
well one thing that we can certainly do
is that we can take this approach we can
random number generator base 62 encode
um yes there might be a collision but
what we'll do is before saving it to the
database we'll come over to our database
and we'll read the short URL see if any
exists like this already and only if
they don't exist write to it update it
so we just int roduced another read
instead of calculate the short URL and
save to the database it's calculate the
short URL check and then save to the
database right so that's totally
possible so basically we just need to
check for
Collision first is that a big deal not
really it's an extra read uh there's
some consequences to that but no it's
not a big deal that's one option another
option is that we could hash the long
URL this is a a common one that I see a
lot online and the candidates often
raise so they can take that long URL and
they can call some hash function and so
maybe that hash function is like md5
something cheaper like murmur hash
something like shot 256
cryptographically secure whatever but
you get a long URL and then you would
end up getting some thing some output
right some hash some hash and you would
take that hash and you would base 62 and
code that hash again right and then you
would slice it to take just those first
six characters so that would be the
operation that you would do there now
what you end up with is six characters
of Base 62 encoded so you end up with
the same thing that we ended up with the
random number generator and because of
how hash functions work right a hash
function despite it being deterministic
has that waterfall effect such that if
you change just one bit on the input the
whole hash should change significantly
basically increasing the randomness of
the hash that's generated and that
property means that the the output is
actually just exactly the same as the
random number generator it is literally
the same thing there sure there's 56
billion chance uh 56 billion possible
combinations the chance of collision is
exactly the same so same as above again
this would totally work it would work
exactly the same we just need to make
sure that we check the database first
can we avoid checking the database is
the question the answer is yes is it a
better approach the answer is maybe yes
um but what we could do is we could use
a count
like why introduce this Randomness in
the first place why doesn't the first
person who comes to us just have short
code one the second person have short
code two the third person have short
code three and so on and so we can just
have incrementing a counter we can just
increment counter for each new short URL
or each new long URL that needs to be
turned into a short code and then again
we'll base 62 encoder we'll always do
that so we can kind of make this space
more Compact and so this allows us to
get up to that 56 billion with six
things but we're guaranteed to never
have a collision because we're always
just linearly increasing there a
sequential nature to it right we're
going to go zero all the way to 9 and
then to capital A and then to capital B
all the way through until you know
eventually we have six characters of
that base 62 encoding and so this is
great and maybe what we can do here just
to visualize this is I'm going to expand
this guy up like
this and we can add in here like some
counter so there's some counter in here
which we're just always going to go grab
the next count what's next right
grabbing a count is fast it guarantees
that it's Unique and by base 62 encoding
it we guarantee that it's short it's not
without its flaws though so there's a
predictability which is bad for
security and so what this basically
means is that anyone who wants to know
our short URLs can uh they can easily
know how to count and they can easily
know how to base 62 encode and so not
only could our competitors know how many
URLs we've shortened by just continuing
to call our service until they end up
not getting a short URL that converts to
a long URL anymore um but they also can
just like scrape all of the long URLs
that we have right by just calling the
short URL with that new incremented code
each time and so maybe this is a problem
maybe it's not like this is a product
decision we could say when users go to
create a short URL like a warning
warning
like they these are not don't don't uh
don't shorten private URLs right like
we're not responsible for this that's
one option there we can of course have
rate limiting so that our competitors
can't just come and like scrape and grab
all of these URLs if they want to but we
also could do something more
sophisticated and that's just not let
this become a problem in the first place
by introducing something that's
oftentimes called a by junctive function
and so you don't need to know this again
in a system design interview I think
this is just interesting if you brought
brought out these facts they'd probably
be impressed but you don't need to know
this bjective functions are functions
that just issue a Ono one mapping and so
there are libraries one of the most
popular ones is squids dog you can look
that up if you're interested and it
takes a number and then it returns to a
hash that looks exactly or a base 62
encoded string that looks exactly like
the short URLs you see on bit.ly and it
can take that uh that number that you
provided it and then one to one map it
via some off obfuscation
um so that you can no longer
incrementally uh you know know how to
get the next URL if you're if you're a
competitor a hacker or anything like
this so these bjective functions exist
it's worth you looking up on your own
I'm not going to go into more detail but
that's one option there now the nice
thing about this counter approach of
course is that we don't need to do the
read right we know that every single one
of these is unique so now we get the
counter we run our bjective function if
we want to and then we go store that
short code in the UR uh the short code
in the URL table and we're to
go um the last thing that I'll say here
is that you're probably thinking to
yourself oh no this isn't great why do
you have a counter on a single server
you're right we'll talk about it when we
get to scale but for now here are your
options in order to create a short code
both two and three are totally realistic
and you could provide these in an
interview and it should totally be
passing you'll just need to call out the
need for that Collision check four is an
option I think that I like in this case
because it doesn't require that
additional check but ultimately there's
very small differences between them
let's come back over and look at what
non-functional requirement we should go
into next so I'm going to go back in
order now and I'm going to jump into low
latency on redirects and so how can we
make this redirect as low latency as
possible right now what is it that we
have to do while the client has to make
a request to the primary server the
primary server needs to look up that
short URL in our URL table return the
long URL and then that long URL needs to
be returned to the client now the
expensive part of all of this is this
database lookup that's what's going to
take the most time and now without any
indexing and I'll explain indexing here
in a moment but we would have 1 billion
rows here and you would need to look at
every single one of these rows and try
to find the short URL that you're
interested in so that you could return
the long URL that it maps to that would
obviously be like prohibitively
expensive it would take a really long
time to do and so the common thing that
we do in databases in order to make
these queries and these lookups more
efficient is that we use something
called index
and so each URL table you can define a
primary key this is true of most
database systems now this primary key
does a couple things one it enforces
uniqueness which is good in our case
certainly but it also ensures that an
index is automatically built on that um
on that column right on that primary key
in the table and this index is typically
kept in memory not always but you can
think of it as this thing that's kept in
memory that is a pointer to a location
in disk and so so instead of us having
to go to disk and seek and look for
through all of the records in order to
find the short URL we go to memory we
look at this index and we ask it hey
where is short URL 123 and it's going to
tell us where in disk it is and we can
just seek to disk or we can just go
exactly to that place in disk find the
long URL and return it makes it much
much faster now when you add a primary
key to something like postgress let's
say that our database here was postgress
then it uses a b tree as the index a b
tree is like a self it is a
self-balancing tree not like it is a s
balancing tree and if you've been
studying for your coding interviews you
know plenty about trees um and so it's
going to make this log in often times
actually much quicker than that there
are quite a few optimizations that exist
in modern databases nowadays but that's
what's going to happen and it's going to
make this look up a lot faster now you
do have an option of additionally
creating a a a further index basically a
second index on this short URL which can
be a hash index and this would be 0 of
one it would hash the short URL and and
point directly to where the the the row
is for us to get the long URL you could
totally do this realistically you don't
need to uh these be trees in postgress
for example and all these modern data
databases are so well optimized for
these like equivalency lookups um that
it would effectively be the same so not
something to actually worry about um now
we're still going to disk like we solved
one part we don't have to go to disk and
then read all the records in disk we're
going to go to memory uh we're going to
use that index to find where we need to
go in disc but we still need to go to
dis and then back realistically ssds are
really fast nowadays uh so this this
wouldn't probably be a problem but we
could certainly make it faster by never
having to go to dis in the first place
and only ever going to memory and so
while we're going to index first that
was our first option we added that here
index our second option is that we're
going to add a cach and so we can use
something like redis we could use MC D
we can use any any inmemory cach here
and what this cash is is it's just
another server it's just another
computer somewhere a separate instance a
separate computer running and we're just
going to utilize its memory we're going
to utilize its Ram in order to be really
quick here and so we're going to make
this be a read through least recently
used so read through least recently used
cache what the heck does that mean right
it means that any time that we want a
short URL or we want a long URL for a
short URL we're going to look in the
cash and if there's a cash Miss
then we're going to get it from the
database update our cash and then return
it that's the read through nature the
least recently used is just saying if
this cash gets full then our eviction
policy is that anything that hasn't been
touched lately kick it because the
reality of a system like a URL shortener
is that there are going to be some URLs
that are really hot that they're getting
called all the time but after a couple
weeks months no one's going to use the
old URLs anymore and so there's no
reason for us to have them cash their
lookup might take a little bit longer
the first time who cares and so caches
like this uh are oftentimes just key
value pairs that's at least most common
that's why I say oftentimes and so in
our case the key is just going to be
that short code or that short URL and
then the value is just going to be the
long URL and so this is going to be a
really quick in memory of one lookup if
we have a hit if we have a Miss then we
have to come to our database look it up
by the index re uh place it in the cache
and then return it but the subsequent
call will be over one again so that's
what we can do there great option now
there is one thing that we could do
further I would actually stop here and
argue that this is best for some of the
reasons the arguments that I made when
it pertains to the 302 versus 301 but we
could also cash in a CDN a Content
delivery Network what these are is like
they're little Edge servers that are
geographically located all over the
world so you can imagine that our
primary service maybe is sitting there
in California and you're trying to
request a short URL from China uh well
there's a lot of latency required in
making that request all the way from
China over to California and so CDN are
these servers that are all over the
world and the user then would hit that
server in China and we would have cashed
on that CDN any responses to any of our
for example um you know API requests to
to to to redirect to a longer URL from a
short URL there it is right uh so we
could do that but the problem is it's
going to hit that um CDN and then just
redirect the user and it's never going
to come to our primary server so there's
the same issues we mentioned with the
302 301 redirect which is that in the
case of a 301 redirect it's a permanent
redirect so it never hits our primary
server and we don't know if our servic
is well like working and so if we care
about knowing if our service is working
and logging and analytics then we
wouldn't use a CDN if we don't care
about that then we could use a CDN but
we could also use a 301 redirect and
then we'll just have less things come to
our primary server and we have more
caching at the edge both the users
browsers dns's and CDN respectively so
good discussion to have with your
interview this is kind of the essence of
these system design interviews there's
no right or wrong answer it's trade-offs
it's discussions it's weighing different
uh priorities and so something important
to note heading back over to our
non-functional requirements we can head
to our next one which is scale to
support 100 million daily active users
and 1 billion URLs and so when we talk
about scale we want to work our way
typically left to right of our system
and see where all the bottlenecks would
be all of our services here all of our
components how do they need to scale so
I'm going to move some things around a
little little bit just so that we have
room but the first thing that we're
going to look at here is our primary
server and so does our primary server
even need to scale well we said that we
had 100 million daily active users now
let's just say that each one of those
daily active users does one redirect
this seems normal maybe it could be two
maybe it could be three change your
estimate but I'm going to say that the
average is about one redirect and so 100
million is the same as 10 to the 8th
when you're doing math in a system
design interview I suggest you use
exponents like this this uh because it
makes the math a lot easier watch this
so we have 10 to 8 and then there's a
100,000 on average not on average but
round it up excuse me seconds in a day
right so that's 10 the 5 and so 10 8
divided by 10 5 is just sub subtraction
on the exponents so 10 the 3 in other
words 1,000 so we have 1,000 requests
per second okay uh that's if it's evenly
distributed but we want to handle some
Peaks so maybe we multiply by 10 or
maybe we multiply by 100 in either case
we're somewhere between 10 to 100K
request per second being our Peak here
so we did that math pretty quickly it's
kind of a handy Tool uh using the
exponents in that way and so then you
start to build up some intuition about
what is a lot and so an ec2 average
instance like a T3 medium can handle
around a th000 requests at a time uh I
say around this is intentionally
handwavy like this depends on a how
computationally expensive these requests
are how much memory is being used how
much CPU is being used how large the
payloads are how much bandwidth is being
used like these numbers are very rough
but in an interview you can use that
roughly like a thousand requests
concurrently is reasonable enough and so
we would we can't handle this in one
instance here if this was just one
server and it could handle a th requests
per second and we have 10K or 100K we
obviously uh need to do something
different here and so we have two two
options to us you probably read about
these the first is what we call
vertically scaling and this is just
making this box bigger so like box Plus+
basically uh and when I say box of
course this is the server just some
terminology there and so we can go to a
bigger instance instead of a T3 medium
we can pump it up to something that has
more CPU more memory can handle more
bandwidth like a bigger box that's one
option it's more expensive another
option and this one's the most common
one certainly in system design
interviews is that we scale horizontally
and that means that we just have more of
these and that each request that comes
in goes to one of them right and so
that's a that's a really good option and
the option that we're going to take here
we're going to scale this
horizontally but one thing that's
interesting to note is that there are a
lot of reads in our system 100K rights
per second for that redirect but this
get short URL we could imagine that
there's far fewer of those like there
are very few people who are trying to
actually create a short URL every day
maybe it's a thousandth of the amount of
people here so just like one Quest per
second it's not a lot and so that
doesn't need to scale a lot the reads
need to scale a lot and so as a result
what we can do here is something uh kind
of interesting which is that we can
evolve our design to be a microservice
architecture and in doing so we're going
to have two separate Services both of
which are scaling horizontally we're
going to have one here which is our read
Service this one's going to be
responsible for the redirection and one
which is our WR service this one's going
to be responsible for creating the short
URLs and then in doing so we're going to
introduce a new component here that we
call an API Gateway and it's responsible
for being the entry point so the API
Gateway gets a request for one of those
API endpoints that we Define and then
it's going to determine based on that
API endpoint which one of these services
do I go to which one should I route this
request to the read service or the right
service
respectively and then the right service
of course we're going to do
this let's just tie everything together
here we have this is only on the read
service and then this still goes through
here right or maybe you can make this
abstraction like this if you want to
since it's a read through but in any
case kind of the same thing just a
little bit of a layer of abstraction
there okay and so now we've split this
up and what this means is that this read
Service we're going to scale this one
horizontally we're going to have a lot
of them bang bang bang and we might have
far fewer of these right services and it
affords us the ability to do so now let
me just note that this is like this is
true and it would be a good thing to say
in your system design interview but
there's like a very little bit of code
happening on both of these boxes and the
reality is like splitting this up into
two means that you have two different
services to maintain and it's probably
Overkill there's no right or wrong
answer but I just want to call that out
you very well could just keep these in
the same box and scale them the same but
uh you know it's a trade-off to way this
is totally a valid option too so feel
free to discuss it in your interview um
now which each of these Services when it
comes to their scaling nowadays this is
like all handled for you on the modern
Cloud infrastructure whether it's uh you
know Google cloud or AWS or Azure or
otherwise and there's just autoscale it
and so you can have these ec2 instances
or you know in the AWS world and you
configure memory in CPU limits so you
basically say if 75% of my clusters
memory is used or if 75% of my CPUs use
throw up a new box and then if less than
20% is being used take a box down and
these things will just scale
automatically and yes technically of
course there's a load balancer here in
front of them that is taking these
requests and then just routing them
either with round robin or however else
you configure it within your um you know
your your Cloud dashboard and it's
routing it to each of the boxes but
that's how it works in practice nowadays
like you don't actually control the up
and down uh it's just all autoscaling so
something that's worthwhile to know um
okay so that's how we we scaled our
services now with that right service
though we have an issue remember we had
that Global counter here or we had that
counter here now this counter if we have
multiple of these right Services we
can't have two different counters
they're not in sync like they both start
at zero and then they go to one and now
there's two ones there's two twos you
get the picture right so this isn't
going to work and instead we need all of
these right services to agree on the
same current count and so what we need
to do is we need to pull this counter
off of the instances basically that
counter can't be in memory anymore on
these particular servers we need what we
can call like a global counter and so we
can have a global counter here um and
This Global counter again could be
reddis for what it's worth it could be
the same instance too I'm just drawing
this separately uh to make it easy to
see and now they're both going to ask
this Global counter for what's the next
count and it just keeps a single count
here that goes from one to two to three
you get the picture all the way up right
and so in Reedus's world reddis has an
incor um which is a command that's just
going to increment a counter you can
have that counter here in memory and
because redus is single threaded you
don't have to worry about any
concurrency it's single threaded so
we're going to do one incur at a time
and it's wicked fast because it's in
memory and then we're just going to do
the next one so the count is always
increasing now one thing I'll mention
just quickly is that this means now that
uh in order to get the count you got to
go somewhere else make a network call
get the count come back do your
calculation send it to the database you
added a step here and so one thing that
we could do which is kind of cute is
that when a server comes online we can
request like the next 1,000 counts for
example and then keep all of those in
our internal memory and then just be
using those until we need to request the
next 1,000 counts and if this server
goes down before we used all 1,000 no
big deal like those are lost forever
those counts but it's fine right we had
up until what it was like 3.5 trillion
until we needed to add the the seventh
character there so we can afford to lose
some there's no big deal um but this is
how this would work I'm going to remove
that and you guys can just remember that
these are both horizontally scaled
respectively okay and then what about
the database so let's head over this way
now how does this guy need to scale well
again let's let's do a little bit of
math here maybe I'll I'll do it right
here um so we have a short code that's
like 8 bytes we have a long URL maybe
that's like 100 bytes we have a creation
time those are always 8 bytes
uh we have an optional custom Alias
maybe that's up to 100 bytes that'd be
crazy though cuz it should be small so
that's on the high end an expiration
time 8 bytes you know this is 216 bytes
232 bytes let's just round up because
maybe we want to throw more stuff in
there let's say 500 bytes and so we have
500 bytes times 1 billion rows and so
that ends up just being 500 gigabytes
500 GB isn't a lot modern ssds are in
like the hundreds of terabytes like 5
gab is nothing so we can just have a
single instance of our database it's no
big deal the only other thing we'd be
concerned about is the read throughput
like can our database handle the read
throughput and we put most of the reads
on reddis anyway in our cache so our
database is chilling it's good to go now
if we did need to scale the database
then we would Shard probably by our
short short Ur short URL and that would
mean that we would just have multiple
instances of our database uh and where
the data was stored would be based on
like take your short URL modulo 3 and
store it on one of those databases it's
kind of how that works but in this case
we didn't need to we did the math and we
proved that it doesn't matter and so at
this point our system is is fully
scaled coming back over the last thing
that we had was high availability now
most of what we've done by having the
auto scaling by separating these and
scaling them independently horizontal
scaling uh we're at this point largely
available there are some things that we
want to consider like reddis here uh we
would want to make sure that we probably
have honestly I don't care actually if
redus goes down it's fine because it's
read through so we'll load it back up by
just hitting the database we'll be slow
for a little bit no big deal if the
global counter goes down that would be a
problem so we'd want to have some high
availability modes here which basically
means that we would have some redundancy
uh we can also periodically snapshot the
count and save it to disk um if you want
to look up reddis high availability mode
it'll it'll uh explain to you more about
how all of that works but that's a
configuration here in the database too
um we can have some some replicas
so maybe we have a single replica we
frankly probably don't even I don't know
having a single replica would be good in
case the database went down um but we're
also just going to take snapshots every
hour or so so a snapshot of the current
state of the database stored in
something like S3 a big cheap blob
storage and that way if the database
ever goes down we just pull it back up
having that replica there means that if
one database goes down we can just point
to the replica and it can be in charge
for a while until we get our Snapchat
back up Snapshot back up
um but that should satisfy our high
availability in this case no
problem so at this point we take a look
back at our requirements and we've
satisfied all of our functional
requirements when we did the high level
design we've now satisfied all of our
non-functional requirements and we look
at ourselves and we say I nailed it like
I've passed this interview I've crushed
it and I know I've crushed it because me
and my interviewer agreed on the
requirements and I have now completed my
design satisfying all of those
requirements and so I'm feeling really
good you should be feeling really good
hopefully you learned a lot as
well so there you have it I hope you all
learned something today especially if
you're new to system design I really
hope you found this useful uh we're
going to get back to our regularly
scheduled programming don't worry with
some of those more complex problems and
breakdowns coming out in the near future
uh as always if you have questions
feedbacks things that you think I did
wrong please go ahead and leave a
comment I'd love to hear from you uh and
I get to as many of those as I can so
don't hesitate there and of course don't
forget to like And subscribe all right
good luck in your upcoming interviews
I'll see youall soon